Hi, everyone.
In this next year, we are going to talk about function hoisting.
All right, so we know by now what hoisting is hoisting is actually the entire process of compilation
or passing and the code execution.
So this like execution context, this entire thing, this these two processes or two states, two stages,
they are like summarized in one word which is hoisting.
So we know what hoisting is.
So and we are we've also talked about the variable hoisting, a.k.a. the variable compilation and execution
stages or or phases or passes, whatever you want to call that.
All right.
So now we have to talk about, even though we have covered it, even though we have covered this so
individual hoisting, what we had was how this code is going to get executed.
We know how this code is going to get executed.
OK, we talked about it in the previous lecture.
In this lecture, we are just going to go over this lexical scope idea and how hoisting fits into this
entire into this picture.
So we know that line for online 14 are executable code.
But if I go ahead and if I run this program in this line, we are going to get a type error rate.
And in this line, on this line, we are going to get no error rate and I'm going to save it.
So here we have a type.
The movie is not a function.
Why is this I'm going to explain to you what this is in the context of code, execution, execution
context.
And also like this, the entire idea of lexical scope of JavaScript.
Now, whenever the whenever we are in our first stage, which is the compilation or the parsing stage,
what we have is.
We go ahead and we check check all our all of our formal declarations, so in here we have two types
of formal declarations online.
Number seven, we have a function, a formal declaration.
And on 9/11, we have a veritable declaration or a valuable formal declaration.
The reason that it is a formal declaration is that it has.
And there is the verbal keyword.
There is the identifier.
There is the like the value for that identifier.
All right.
So when whenever we write this code and we start from the top from line number one.
Line number one is our it is it is a note.
It is a common.
So it doesn't run line number two is the same thing.
Then we have a space online number for we have we don't have a formal declaration.
This is not a formal declaration.
So any identifier or any variable has to make two goals.
Either it is receiving an assignment or it is receiving a value or is a target for reference or it is
a source of reference.
Now, this is not a formal declaration.
And because it is not receiving anything, OK, as an as as a value, the same thing goes for line number
five.
I'm just going to go ahead and trash that.
But whenever we come to line number seven, we can see that we have a formal function declaration inside
which we have a function identifier.
And we know that this function identifier, because it is a function declaration, function declarations,
they and their identifiers, they will belong to their enclosing scope, which in this case is the global
scope.
So whenever the compiler reaches the line number seven, it is going to ask the scope manager that have
you heard of this book identifier?
We don't care what's inside the function for now because that is the job of the execution engine.
But we just want to know what are our identifiers and what scope do they belong to?
So I'm just going to come in this one right here, OK?
I'm going to create a multiline coming.
So in the compilation stage, in the compilation stage, we are interested and that's the case that
we are or we want to create a plan or like blueprint, whatever you want to call it, blueprint or map
for variables.
For I'm just going to write four formal declarations and the scopes that they belong to, so this is
what we want to do in the compilation stage, we are just looking for formal declarations.
We see one here and we ask the scope manager, have you heard about this?
Do you know what this says?
The scope manager is going to say no, but the scope manager is going to create a scope for it.
He's going to define a scope for the scope are created.
Of course, it's going to say that which scope it belongs to.
And this identifier book, it belongs to to the scope or global scope, then online.
And then after that, we are done on line 15.
We don't have any formal declaration line 16, no lines 17 now.
So online 18, we have another formal declaration.
And in this formal declaration, this is not a function declaration.
This is a variable declaration.
All right.
So we are we don't care what's on the other side of this assignment, a quality assignment.
We don't care what's on the right hand side.
We only care what's on the left hand side.
OK, so we ask again the same thing.
Compiler asks the scope manager because the scope manager is the person or the manager that specifies
which declarations should go into which I sorry, which are identifiers should go into which scope.
That's what scope manager does.
So we are going to ask the scope manager, do you know what this is?
The scope manager is going to say no, but the scope manager is going to know and determine which scope
this movie identifier belongs to.
And it belongs to the Global Scope Online.
Nineteen.
We have nothing.
No, we do have something, but we don't have a formal declaration.
Online 20, we have we don't have a formal declaration and online 21, we don't have a formal declaration.
So at this point, the compilation stage is done and we are in the in the execution execution stage
right now in the execution stage.
We know that what are our identifiers and we know what scopes do they belong to.
So the only thing that happens at this stage is we access these Vereb identifiers and we want to find
out whether they are indeed targeted reference or they are in the source reference.
So if they are in the target reference, such as line number 18, what do we want to do?
What does the execution engine do?
In fact, the execution engine is going to grab the value of that and allocate his space in memory to
it.
OK, and if we are in the source position, like line number 11, then that line number 11 is going
to take us all the way to where that source points.
But line number 14 to line number 16, they are not executable code.
They are compiled code.
They have been compiled away.
It executable code.
It only is looking for like a identifiers, valid identifiers and whether or not they're in the target
position or if they are in the source position.
So this book.
So we are going to start step by step.
So this book, it is a source reference for a foreign identifier called book.
And whenever we access that, we get everything that's inside of this function, right.
Then the function runs.
So the way that this execution engine works is first off, we get the identifiers, then what the identifier
represents.
Right.
Or what the identifier points to.
So I'm just going to write identifier then what what it points.
Points to or what is the value of first identifier?
That's right, first first identifier, then what it points to.
So this is what the execution engine does and it allocates a small piece of memory, a small space in
memory to that.
And that's how it works.
Now, what Hoisting says is that the function, this function is physically cut from here and it comes
right here.
Why?
Because we have access to this function, even though the function call comes before the function definition
itself.
So the function call, this is our normal code C, our regular code.
So the function call is before comes, before the function, the function definition and hoisting says
that the function because this I'm just going to go ahead and come in this one out because we are just
for now we are just talking about the function declaration.
I'm going to come to the function expression as well.
But now I just want to talk about the function declaration now in which we can see that this function
runs.
But but the hoisting says the hoisting misconception is that that this function physically comes here.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to create another comment and I'm going to say the.
Hoisting misconception, misconception.
All right, this is like this, so what does the hoisting misconceptions say?
The hoisting misconception says that first our function comes physically and then I'm just going to
remove this as well, and then our function is cut.
But that's not actually how things work in JavaScript, because JavaScript is a lexically scoped language
and it is not interpreted language.
It means it doesn't go along in line by line.
If it were to go line by line, that we would see an error on this line as well.
But we don't see an error on that line because the execution engine stage, we are just looking for
executable code, a function declaration.
Keep keep this in mind.
What not what what's inside the function declaration, but the function declaration itself.
The identifier is not an executable code.
It is just a compiled code.
When it is compiled, we just call the function, then the function is executed.
And you might ask, okay, how do we know that?
Because whenever you put in these parentheses, these parentheses are exactly what executes this function.
So that's why there are two steps to processes like a two step process.
And when you think about it in this context, you will understand how a function can be executed when
the function definition comes after the function call itself.
The reason for that is.
This book is the function call, but what is the function of execution that is the parentheses.
The parentheses comes before the function execution.
That's why it executes first.
That's why we need a plan for the execution engine so that engine knows.
OK, how how can I execute that?
OK, so this is the hosting misconception, says that the function physically is removed from there
and it comes on top.
No, no, no, it is not.
It doesn't do that.
The original definition of hoisting is this very lexical scope that we have been talking about.
So that is actually hosting.
Hosting is not this is the hosting conception.
I'm not saying that hosting doesn't exist.
It does exist.
Even though it came to JavaScript, it didn't exist prior to ECMAScript 2015.
But when it came, it just provided us with a metaphor for this lexically scoped language, which is
JavaScript.
This is like an easier way of putting how JavaScript works, which instead of saying that there are
two steps, like the first step does this.
The second step does this.
We just say joystick and there is nothing else.
It's not like a magical feature of JavaScript that that like faries that like a compiler or code or
like run the code.
No, no, no.
It is that two stages rolled into one word and hoisting is basically that it does exist.
It's a it is a thing, but it actually refers to the compilation stage on the execution stage.
So this is a misconception.
So that was the function declaration.
But what about functional expressions?
So because function expressions, basically, they have a variable declaration, they are declared through
a variable.
The same thing that we had in a previous lecture.
It is going to happen here because this line of code, this is the function, this is the executable
line.
This line is the executable line.
All right.
That's why function declarations, if you if you.
Call them before the function itself, we are going to get an error the same way we had in our variables,
so that function expression is the same thing as this one.
So this book variable is not defined, if I call it.
We are going to get undefined.
The difference is that whenever we call this, we get a taper.
It means that this is a type error.
We have mistyped something because there isn't any function by the name of movie.
And but what the hoisting says is this is how actually this function runs.
So I'm going to give you the hoisting perspective on the function declaration sorry, function expression
as well.
So this is what hoisting says.
So according to the misconception, not according to our original plan that we have for a compilation.
So it is going to save our movie is right here and then we call the function.
I'm just going to go ahead and call it right here and then we have our function.
Let's copy it.
Let's put it right here and let's remove this.
So this is what hoisting says, the misconception part of the mistaken, mis understood hoisting says
that this variable is separated from here.
It goes to the top and then this function runs.
Even in that case, if I run it, if I run this function, OK, if I run the movie, we are going to
see that we should see a type error here.
So what I'm going to do is let's go ahead and let's run this as well.
We can see that both of them run.
But let's check this one out.
And I think the reason for that is it says the good, the bad and the ugly.
They come from line number 19, whereas so this is line number 19.
So for this example, to work, I'm going to come in this entire thing out.
And now we can see we see a type at her, right.
So we get the same thing.
Even if if this misunderstood kind of mysterious hoisting works, we still get a typer.
Right.
And that's not actually how it works.
So if I were to comment that one out and coming this one in and save it, we can see that the function
runs perfectly fine.
All right.
So we are just going to wrap this up.
We know that JavaScript is a lexically scoped language whenever the code is converted into a program
in layman's terms.
We have two stages.
The compilation stage than the execution stage inside the compilation stage we have, we want to find
out what are our identifiers, formal identifiers and also what scope do they belong to.
Right.
And in the execution stage, we want to know which are our executable code, and when we get to those,
we want to know that identifiers position, whether it is a target or a source, so we can allocate
a small space in memory to that specific
identifier.
Right.
And this entire process, compilation, compilation and execution is called hoisting.
But the misunderstood part of hoisting is that it is only one part, only one part of hoisting is misunderstood.
And that part is the code is physically rearranged inside like your program.
And that's incorrect.
That is not correct.
I just showed you the documentation, even though the documentation has like a little bit of like a
mistake here.
But still, this is documentation, right?
We are going to go over the specification as well, because there is actually one more thing that I
want to show you, and that is the temporal dead zone or TDE error that we get with const and let because
we know how hosting works with VARE.
But how about letting const and contrary to popular popular belief, let and conse do host but in a
different way.
So see you guys in the next lecture where we block
what is the word we blast this bubble or like blow this bubble.
We don't blow it.
I think the correct word should be burst this bubble.
OK, just took me like half a second.
We are going to burst the bubble of this in our next lecture as well.
And I'm going to give you the source, the go to resource in the spec, and that is the ECMAScript language
specification.
I'm going to give you the website.
I'm going to give you that the paragraph for that.
And I'm going to explain it to you how temporal deadzone works and why letton costs can do hoist.
But what is the difference between hoisting when it comes to let constant when it comes to var see you
guys in the next lecture.